---
title: ":robot: Robotics"
layout: post
tag: random
image: https://github.com/susan-z/susan-z.github.io/blob/master/img/robotics_cover.png?raw=true
headerImage: true
projects: true
hidden: true
description: "Robotics Projects"
category: project
author: szhao
externalLink: false
---

## Block Stacking Robot
We chose to use a Lynx robot arm to perform actions of locating, picking up, and stacking small blocks. In doing so, we explored several functions: orienting the gripper and grasping the blocks, accounting for droop and weight of the block and Lynx arm itself, and continuously updating the planner to reflect the changing environment for ensured collision prevention. By developing a solution to this problem using Matlab, we gained a stronger understanding of how to finely tune a planner with both velocity, weight, and obstacle considerations.

### PseudoCode
1. Load custom map
2. Generate Configuration space (C-space)
3. Execute A*  path planning to a reachable configuration within a set tolerance of the block, orienting the gripper at end position
4. Utilize velocity inverse kinematics to lower the gripper. Close and raise using IK velocity
5. Execute A* path planning to a viable configuration within tolerance of the target stack location, once again orienting the gripper at the end position
6. Use IK velocity to lower the block onto the stack, open to release and raise end effector vertically up
7. Update obstacles in C-space
8. Repeat, starting with A* to reach next block

<center>
  <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/2dLq227PmDc" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</center>
<center>
Lynx Robot Arm Stacking 5 Blocks
</center>

[Project Paper](https://github.com/susan-z/susan-z.github.io/tree/master/projects/RoboFinalPaper.pdf)

### Experience
* Geometry and configuration of a multi-DOF manipulator
* Trajectory planning algorithms
* Forward and Inverse kinematics of a manipulator arm
* Standard equations for manipulator dynamics
* Obstacle detection, C-space generation
* Applying all to a real-world robot manipulator

---
## Smart Highway
The design problem was to control the speed of a vehicle to track another vehicle from a distance that depends on speed. We wanted to string several of these vehicles, one behind the other. We first created a dynamic model using Simulink. Our final controller utilized PI control to maintain the desired distance away from the car in from of it. 

<center>
  <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/iZ2CZPi2Xqs" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</center>
<center>
Lead train with a small sinusoidal variation in speed, with 5 following.
</center>

[Project Paper](https://github.com/susan-z/susan-z.github.io/blob/master/projects/SmartHighway_suzhao.pdf)

### Experience
* PID Control
* Bode plots and root locus to assess the single-car system performance
* Simulink modeling
* Nyquist plots to analyze stability
* Matlab scripting
* Constructing and analyzing filters